https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-25181 (#8339)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: gitops/gitops_manage_addon.adoc

*Important:* If you enable the {gitops-short} add-on by using the `GitOpsCluster` custom resource, then the `GitOpsCluster` disables the `Push Model` for all applications.

When you enable the {gitops-short} add-on, you have the following deployment modes: 

* `Basic` mode: Deploys the {gitops-short} operator and the `ArgoCD`  instance on managed clusters through the `GitOpsCluster` custom resource. 

* `Agent` mode: Includes all basic mode components along with the `ArgoCD` agent for enhanced pull-based architecture. 

To enable the {gitops-short} add-on for your selected managed clusters, reference your `Placement` and use the `GitOpsCluster` custom resource as the interface for enabling. To enable and manage the {gitops-short} add-on, complete the following sections: 

* <<Prerequisites, Prerequisites>>
* <<configure-gitops-addon, Configuring GitOps add-on settings>>
* <<additional-resources, Additional resources>> 

[#prerequisites]

> == Prerequisites 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Prerequisites 
```

Reviewer: (You can use that method throughout. We all agreed to move forward with new doc like this.)

Author: Missed this comment. I can apply this change tomorrow.

> If you want to enable the {gitops-short} add-on with the `ArgoCd` agent, use the `Agent` mode. This mode extends the basic {gitops-short} add-on with the `ArgoCD` agent component, enabling a pull model architecture. Use the `Agent` mode in environments with network restrictions, enhanced security requirements, or when you implement a pull model for application delivery.  The advanced pull model is powered by the `ArgoCD` agent and gives you a fully automated GitOps experience. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to enable the {gitops-short} add-on with the `ArgoCD` agent, use the `Agent` mode. This mode extends the basic {gitops-short} add-on with the `ArgoCD` agent component, enabling a pull model architecture. Use the `Agent` mode in environments with network restrictions, enhanced security requirements, or when you implement a pull model for application delivery.  The advanced pull model is powered by the `ArgoCD` agent and gives you a fully automated GitOps experience. 
```

> If you want to enable the {gitops-short} add-on with the `ArgoCd` agent, use the `Agent` mode. This mode extends the basic {gitops-short} add-on with the `ArgoCD` agent component, enabling a pull model architecture. Use the `Agent` mode in environments with network restrictions, enhanced security requirements, or when you implement a pull model for application delivery.  The advanced pull model is powered by the `ArgoCD` agent and gives you a fully automated GitOps experience. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to enable the {gitops-short} add-on with the `ArgoCd` agent, use the `Agent` mode. This mode extends the basic {gitops-short} add-on with the `ArgoCD` agent component, enabling a pull model architecture. Use the `Agent` mode in environments with network restrictions, enhanced security requirements, or when you implement a pull model for application delivery. The advanced pull model is powered by the `ArgoCD` agent and gives you a fully automated GitOps experience. 
```

Reviewer: It's a bit  jarring to have these paragraph as a prereq. I think this needs to be written as a prereq a little better. 

The prereq seems to be:

. Choose to enable with x or y. (???)

For x, go here

For y, go here 

I am a bit confused about what the goal is for these paragraphs.

If you want to enable the {gitops-short} add-on without the `ArgoCD` agent, use the `Basic` mode. This mode enables the {gitops-short} add-on to the managed clusters that you selected with the `Placement`. After enabling the add-on, the `Basic` mode deploys the {gitops-short} `ArgoCD` components that are suitable for the cluster workflows. 

Based on your decision, complete one of the following sections: 

* xref:../gitops/gitops_addon_with_argocd.adoc#enable-gitops-addon-with-argocd[Enabling {gitops} add-on with _ArgoCD_ agent]

> * xref:../gitops/gitops_addon_without_argocd.adoc#enable-gitops-addon-without-argocd[Enabling {gitops} add-on without the  _ArgoCD_ agent]

Reviewer: there's an extra space here

Reviewer: This takes you outside of this topic? that's not something I expected. It seems the user has to go here to do something as a prereq, related to the above paragraph?

* `image`: Custom agent container image.
* `serverAddress`: Override the `ArgoCD` agent principal server address.
* `serverPort`: Override the  `ArgoCD` agent principal server port.
* `mode`: Agent operation mode. The default is `managed`.

To configure the {gitops-short} add-on setting, complete the following steps on your hub cluster: 

. Customize your container images for the {gitops-short} components by applying the following YAML with the `GitOpsCluster`:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
kind: GitOpsCluster
metadata:
  name: gitops-custom-images
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  argoServer:
    argoNamespace: openshift-gitops
  placementRef:
    kind: Placement
    apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
    name: all-openshift-clusters
    namespace: openshift-gitops
  gitopsAddon:
    enabled: true
    gitOpsOperatorImage: "registry.redhat.io/openshift-gitops-1/gitops-operator@sha256:..."
    gitOpsImage: "registry.redhat.io/openshift-gitops-1/argocd@sha256:..."
    redisImage: "registry.redhat.io/rhel8/redis-6@sha256:..."

> ----

Reviewer: for all of these, please write how to apply if they are applying a change.

  placementRef:
    kind: Placement
    apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
    name: all-openshift-clusters
    namespace: openshift-gitops
  gitopsAddon:
    enabled: true
    gitOpsOperatorNamespace: openshift-gitops-operator
    gitOpsNamespace: openshift-gitops
----

. Specify if the `ArgoCD` agent can reconcile application in all namespaces by applying the following YAML with the `GitOpsCluster`:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
kind: GitOpsCluster
metadata:
  name: gitops-reconcile-scope
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  argoServer:
    argoNamespace: openshift-gitops
  placementRef:
    kind: Placement
    apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
    name: all-openshift-clusters
    namespace: openshift-gitops
  gitopsAddon:
    enabled: true
    reconcileScope: 
----
+
.. For the `reconcileScope` field, give it the `All-Namespaces` value if you want the `ArgoCD` instance to reconcile applications in all namespaces.
.. For the `reconcileScope` field, give it the `Single-Namespace` value if you want the the `ArgoCD` instance to only reconcile applications in its own namespace.

> 

Reviewer: There should be an action for `apply.` Otherwise this topic looks good.

Author: Not sure what you mean here. I say to apply the YAML. Is this what you're referring to when you say describe the YAML and provide more action than only "apply" ?

Reviewer: I showed an example in the doc in Slack yesterday:
`
. Run `oc apply -f placement.yaml -n <namespace>`, where `namespace` matches the namespace that you used for the policy that you previously created.`

Reviewer: It's not picking up the code here but it's the one I sent in Slack.

* `image`: Custom agent container image.
* `serverAddress`: Override the `ArgoCD` agent principal server address.
* `serverPort`: Override the  `ArgoCD` agent principal server port.
* `mode`: Agent operation mode. The default is `managed`.

To configure the {gitops-short} add-on setting, complete the following steps on your hub cluster: 

. Customize your container images for the {gitops-short} components by applying the following YAML with the `GitOpsCluster`:

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
kind: GitOpsCluster
metadata:
  name: gitops-custom-images
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  argoServer:
    argoNamespace: openshift-gitops
  placementRef:
    kind: Placement
    apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
    name: all-openshift-clusters
    namespace: openshift-gitops
  gitopsAddon:
    enabled: true
    gitOpsOperatorImage: "registry.redhat.io/openshift-gitops-1/gitops-operator@sha256:..."
    gitOpsImage: "registry.redhat.io/openshift-gitops-1/argocd@sha256:..."
    redisImage: "registry.redhat.io/rhel8/redis-6@sha256:..."
----

> . Finish applying and save the YAML sample by running the following command: 

Reviewer: same here

> [#manage-gitops-addon]

Reviewer: I will pick up here.

= Managing the {gitops} add-on  

> The {gitops-short} add-on automates the deployment and lifecycle management of the managed clusters. Based on your architecture and connectivity requirements, decide if you want to deploy the GitOps add-on with the `ArgoCD` agent component.

Reviewer: I am left hanging here a little. 

If I do, do I follow this process. If I don't is there another topic I should see or do I just skip this topic? Or in this process, do I have to decide? That last line is a bit confusing.

> *Important:* If you enable the {gitops-short} add-on using the `GitOpsCluster` custom resource, then the `GitOpsCluster` disables the `Push Model` for all applications.

Reviewer: add-on using 

add-on _by_ using?
add-on _that is_ using?

When you enable the {gitops-short} add-on, you have the following deployment modes: 

> * `Basic` mode: Deploys the {gitops-short} operator and the `ArgoCD`  instance on managed clusters through the `GitOpsCluster` custom resource. 

Reviewer: extra space here

* `Agent` mode: Includes all basic mode components along with the `ArgoCD` agent for enhanced pull-based architecture. 

To enable the GitOps add-on for your selected managed clusters, reference your `Placement` and use the `GitOpsCluster` custom resource as the interface for enabling. To enable and manage the GitOps add-on, complete the following sections: 

* <<Prerequisites, Prerequisites>>
* <<configure-gitops-addon, Configuring GitOps add-on settings>>
* <<skip-gitops-addon, Skipping the GitOps add-on enhancement>>
* <<skip-enforcements-argocd, Skipping enforcements by customizing the _ArgoCD_ custom resource>> 
* <<uninstall-gitops-addon, Uninstalling the GitOps add-on>>
* <<Additional-resources, Additional resources>> 

[#prerequisites]

> == Prerequisites 

Reviewer: this is all under prereqs?

Reviewer: This seems more like the intro to the topic and the types of modes, which would not be prereqs. If they are this all needs to be written as:

You need to choose your mode, etc....

Reviewer: It still does not work that we have these conceptual paragraphs as prereqs.

If you want to enable the GitOps add-on with the `ArgoCd` agent, use the `Agent` mode. This mode extends the basic GitOps add-on with the `ArgoCD` agent component, enabling a `Pull Model` architecture. Use the `Agent` mode in environments with network restrictions, enhanced security requirements, or when you implement a `Pull Model` for application delivery.  The `Advanced` pull model is powered by the `ArgoCD` agent and gives you a fully automated GitOps experience. 

If you want to enable the GitOps add-on without the `ArgoCD` agent, use the `Basic` mode. This mode enables the GitOps add-on to the managed clusters that you selected with the `Placement`. After enabling the add-on, the `Basic` mode deploys the {gitops-short} `ArgoCD` components that are suitable for the cluster workflows. 

Based on your decision, complete one of the following sections: 

* xref:../gitops/gitops_addon_with_argocd.adoc#enable-gitops-addon-with-argocd[Enabling {gitops} add-on with _ArgoCD_ agent]
* xref:../gitops/gitops_addon_without_argocd.adoc#enable-gitops-addon-without-argocd[Enabling {gitops} add-on without the  _ArgoCD_ agent]

> 

Reviewer: there have been a number of spacing issues. Please scan all these docs for extra spacing, as I may not identify and call out each one.

[#configure-gitops-addon]
== Configuring {gitops-short} add-on settings

The {gitops-short} add-on supports various configuration options to customize the deployment according to your requirements.

> The {gitops-short} add-on supports the following configuration options in the `gitopsAddon` spec:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {gitops-short} add-on supports the following configuration options in the `gitopsAddon` specification:
```

* `enabled`: Enable or disable the GitOps add-on. The default is `false`. 
* `gitOpsOperatorImage`: Custom container image for the GitOps operator.
* `gitOpsImage`: Custom container image for `ArgoCD` components.
* `redisImage`: Custom container image for `Redis`.
* `gitOpsOperatorNamespace`: Namespace where the GitOps operator is deployed. The default is `openshift-gitops-operator`.
* `gitOpsNamespace`: Namespace where `ArgoCD` instance is deployed. The default is`openshift-gitops`.
* `reconcileScope`: Control `ArgoCD` reconciliation scope that includes `All-Namespaces` or `Single-Namespace`. The default: `Single-Namespaces`.

> * `overrideExistingConfigs`: Override existing `AddOnDeploymentConfig` values with new values from GitOpsCluster spec. Must be set to `true` when performing any uninstall operation. The default is `false`.

Reviewer: please find all instances of "spec" and change to "specification"

Reviewer: unless coded, of course.

> * `uninstall`: Uninstall the GitOps add-on and all components. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

* `argoCDAgent`: `ArgoCD` agent configuration sub-section. 

The Argo CD Agent supports the following configuration options in the `argoCDAgent` spec:

* `enabled`: Enable or disable the agent. The default `false`.
* `propagateHubCA`: Propagate hub certified authority (CA) certificate to managed clusters. The default is `true`.

> * `image`: Custom agent container image

Reviewer: line 58 missing a period like the other lines/make a complete sentence to be parallel?

> * `serverAddress`: Override `ArgoCD` server address.

Reviewer: Override `ArgoCD` **the**(?) server address.

> * `serverAddress`: Override `ArgoCD` server address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `serverAddress`: Override `ArgoCD` Agent principal server address.
```

> * `serverPort`: Override `ArgoCD` server port.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `serverPort`: Override `ArgoCD` Agent principal server port.
```

* `mode`: Agent operation mode. The default is `managed`.

> * `uninstall`: Uninstall only the agent while keeping the GitOps add-on. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

To configure the {gitops-short} add-on setting, complete the following steps: 

> . Customize your container images for the {gitops-short} components by applying the following YAML:

Reviewer: applying the entire YAML? What is significant about the YAML?

suggest adding something like:

...applying the following YAML with the  `gitopsAddon` images and cluster details (or something like this...you need to know what the user specifically needs from this YAML to write a line introducing it. Imagine this is being read from a screen reader and the user cannot see the YAML, give them some info about it upfront. You don't need to mention all of it, but why is it important.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
kind: GitOpsCluster
metadata:
  name: gitops-custom-images
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  argoServer:
    argoNamespace: openshift-gitops
  placementRef:
    kind: Placement
    apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
    name: all-openshift-clusters
    namespace: openshift-gitops
  gitopsAddon:
    enabled: true
    gitOpsOperatorImage: "registry.redhat.io/openshift-gitops-1/gitops-operator@sha256:..."
    gitOpsImage: "registry.redhat.io/openshift-gitops-1/argocd@sha256:..."
    redisImage: "registry.redhat.io/rhel8/redis-6@sha256:..."
----

> . Customize the namespaces where you deploy the the {gitops-short}components by applying the following YAML:

Reviewer: space issue

Same feedback on YAML

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
kind: GitOpsCluster
metadata:
  name: gitops-custom-namespaces
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  argoServer:
    argoNamespace: openshift-gitops
  placementRef:
    kind: Placement
    apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
    name: all-openshift-clusters
    namespace: openshift-gitops
  gitopsAddon:
    enabled: true
    gitOpsOperatorNamespace: openshift-gitops-operator
    gitOpsNamespace: openshift-gitops
----

> . Specify if the `ArgoCD` agent can reconcile application in all namespaces or only in its namespace by applying the following YAML: 

Reviewer: here, as well

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
kind: GitOpsCluster
metadata:
  name: gitops-reconcile-scope
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  argoServer:
    argoNamespace: openshift-gitops
  placementRef:
    kind: Placement
    apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
    name: all-openshift-clusters
    namespace: openshift-gitops
  gitopsAddon:
    enabled: true
    reconcileScope: <1> or <2> 
----
+
<1> `All-Namespaces`: The `ArgoCD` instance that can reconcile applications in all namespaces.

> <2> `Single-Namespace`: The `ArgoCD` instance that can only reconcile applications in its own namespace.

Reviewer: We are not creating any new call-out, remember, but put this in the previous steps. All new content we are trying to create to more easily convert. These would have to be undone.

*Note:* When using the skip annotation, ensure that your custom configurations are compatible with the {gitops-short} add-on requirements. Skipping enforcement means the {gitops-short} add-on does not manage or reconcile these resources, so you are responsible for maintaining their consistency and correctness.

To skip enforcement for a resource, add the following annotation to the resource on the managed cluster:

[source,yaml]
----
metadata:
  Annotations:
    gitops-addon.open-cluster-management.io/skip: "true"
----

For managing skip annotations across many managed clusters at scale, use the {acm-short} `Policy` to apply the annotation across the fleet. 

[#skip-enforcements-argocd]
== Skipping enforcements by customizing the _ArgoCD_ custom resource

Customizing the `ArgoCD` custom resource is a common use case to adjust resource limits, configure specific settings, or enable additional features. 

To skip enforcement by customizing the `ArgoCD` custom resource, complete the following steps:

. On the managed cluster, edit the `ArgoCD` custom resource:

+
[source,bash]
----
oc edit argocd openshift-gitops -n openshift-gitops
----

> . Add the skip annotation and your custom configuration by applying the following YAML:

Reviewer: In all of your YAML intros, you can be a bit more specific. Here the annotation is true. They are not just adding it.

> . Add the skip annotation and your custom configuration by applying the following YAML:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the `gitops-addon.open-cluster-management.io/skip` annotation and set to `true`, as displayed in the following YAML:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: openshift-gitops
  namespace: openshift-gitops
  annotations:
    gitops-addon.open-cluster-management.io/skip: "true"
----

> .  Optional: Override the existing configuration values that the `GitOpsCluster` maintains in the `AddOnDeploymentConfig` spec by applying the following yaml:

Reviewer: I believe we bold optional, please see the special tagging topic in the internal doc or the rest of the doc for examples.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: apps.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
kind: GitOpsCluster
metadata:
  name: gitops-override-config
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  argoServer:
    argoNamespace: openshift-gitops
  placementRef:
    kind: Placement
    apiVersion: cluster.open-cluster-management.io/v1beta1
    name: all-openshift-clusters
    namespace: openshift-gitops
  gitopsAddon:
    enabled: true
    overrideExistingConfigs: true
    gitOpsImage: "registry.redhat.io/openshift-gitops-1/argocd@sha256:..."
----

[#uninstall-gitops-addon]

> == Uninstalling the {gitops-short} add-on

Reviewer: Skipping and uninstalling need to be their own files. We are trying better to modularize. Some of these files are too long anyway. Let's move Skipping to one file and Uninstall to another.

To completely uninstall the GitOps add-on, including its operator and the `GitOpsCluster` resource, complete the following steps:

> . Set the `uninstall` flag in the `GitOpsCluster` and wait for uninstallation to complete.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

. Delete the `GitOpsCluster` resource by running the following command: 

> 

Reviewer 2: Add:

Delete the `ManagedClusterAddon` resource by running the following command:

`oc -n <managed_cluster_namespace> delete managedclusteraddon gitops-addon`

+
[source,bash]
----
oc delete gitopscluster gitops-clusters -n openshift-gitops
----

. Verify that the `ManagedClusterAddOn` resources are removed from managed cluster namespaces by running the following command: :

> +

Reviewer: press enter behind command to get rid of incorrect format, and there is an extra colon here.

The {gitops-short} add-on automates the deployment and lifecycle management of the managed clusters. Based on your architecture and connectivity requirements, decide if you want to deploy the GitOps add-on with the `ArgoCD` agent component.

*Important:* If you enable the {gitops-short} add-on using the `GitOpsCluster` custom resource, then the `GitOpsCluster` disables the `Push Model` for all applications.

When you enable the {gitops-short} add-on, you have the following deployment modes: 

* `Basic` mode: Deploys the {gitops-short} operator and the `ArgoCD`  instance on managed clusters through the `GitOpsCluster` custom resource. 

* `Agent` mode: Includes all basic mode components along with the `ArgoCD` agent for enhanced pull-based architecture. 

To enable the GitOps add-on for your selected managed clusters, reference your `Placement` and use the `GitOpsCluster` custom resource as the interface for enabling. To enable and manage the GitOps add-on, complete the following sections: 

* <<Prerequisites, Prerequisites>>
* <<configure-gitops-addon, Configuring GitOps add-on settings>>
* <<skip-gitops-addon, Skipping the GitOps add-on enhancement>>

> * << skip-enforcements-argocd, Skipping enforcements by customizing the _ArgoCD_ custom resource>> 

Author: I didn't catch this error until the preview in Github. I'll fix its rendering when addressing other feedback. thanks!
